[IMP] integration_testing: add basic information about tours (#1500)
odoo/documentation: content/developer/reference/addons/testing.rst

Integration Testing
===================

Testing Python code and JS code separately is very useful, but it does not prove that the web client
and the server work together.  In order to do that, we can write another kind of test: tours.  A
tour is a mini scenario of some interesting business flow.  It explains a sequence of steps that

> should be followed.  The test runner will then create a phantom_js browser, point it to the proper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should be followed.  The test runner will then create a PhantomJS browser, point it to the proper
```

url and simulate the click and inputs, according to the scenario.

Writing a test tour
-------------------

Structure
~~~~~~~~~

To write a test tour for `your_module`, start with creating the required files:

.. code-block:: text

    your_module
    ├── ...
    ├── static
    |   └── src
    |       └── js
    |           └── tours
    |               └── your_tour.js
    ├── tests
    |   ├── __init__.py
    |   └── test_calling_the_tour.py
    ├── views
    |   └── your_module_views.xml
    └── __manifest__.py

You can then:

- add your :file:`your_tour.js` as an asset in :file:`your_module_views.xml`.
- update :file:`__manifest__.py` to load :file:`your_module_views.xml`.
- update :file:`__init__.py` in the folder :file:`tests` to import :file:`test_calling_the_tour`.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`../javascript/javascript_reference`, section :ref:`js_reference/adding_assets`
   - :ref:`testing/python`

Javascript
~~~~~~~~~~

> 1. Setup your tour by registering it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Setup your tour by registering it:
```
This allows automatically updating the numbering should someone add/remove an item.

    .. code-block:: javascript

        odoo.define('your_module.your_tour_name', function (require) {
            "use strict";
            var tour = require('web_tour.tour');
            tour.register('your_tour_name', {
                url: '/web',  // Here, you can specify any other starting url
                test: true,
            }, [
                // Your sequence of steps
            ]);
        });

> 2. Add any step you want:

Reviewer: Unless you wanted to have all the explanations below inside this numbered list item? If so, you need to indent each line by an additional space to match the indentation of this line.

However, I find it clear enough if you apply my suggestion (`.` instead of `:`) and *remove* two spaces before all the lines below.

    - Sometimes, a step will be different in enterprise or in community. You can then write two
      steps, one for the enterprise edition and one for the community one.
    - Generally, you want to specify an edition for steps that use the main menu as the main
      menus are different in community and enterprise.
  - **position**: optional
  - **id**: optional
  - **auto**: optional

  .. tip::
     your browser dev-tools is your best tool to find the element your tour needs to use as a
     trigger/extra-trigger.

  .. seealso::
     - `jQuery documentation about find <https://api.jquery.com/find/>`_

Python
~~~~~~

To start a tour from a python test, make the class inherits from
:class:`~odoo.tests.common.HTTPCase`, and call `start_tour`:

.. code-block:: python

  def test_your_test(self):
      # Optional Setup
      self.start_tour("/web", 'your_module.your_tour_name', login="admin")
      # Optional verifications

Debugging tips
--------------

Running the tour in debug mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, activate the :doc:`developer mode </applications/general/developer_mode>` with

> `?debug=tests`. Then, open your debug menu and click on `Start Tour`. You can now launch your tour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`?debug=tests`. Then, open your debug menu and click on **Start Tour**. You can now launch your tour
```

from there.

You can also add this step in your tour to stop it right where you want it to:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        trigger: "body",
        run: () => {debugger}
    }

> Be aware that when running the tour, any data added in your Test setup won't be present in the tour
> unless you launched the test calling the tour with a breakpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. caution::
   When running the tour, any data added in your Test setup won't be present in the tour
   unless you launched the test calling the tour with a breakpoint.
```
